then Samuel died and the Israelites
then Samuel died and the Israelites gathered together and lament it for him
gathered together and lament it for him
gathered together and lament it for him and buried him at his home in Ramah and
and buried him at his home in Ramah and
and buried him at his home in Ramah and David arose and went down to the
David arose and went down to the
David arose and went down to the wilderness of Paran now there was a man
wilderness of Paran now there was a man
wilderness of Paran now there was a man in man whose business was in Carmel
in man whose business was in Carmel
in man whose business was in Carmel and the man was very rich he had three
and the man was very rich he had three
and the man was very rich he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats and
thousand sheep and a thousand goats and
thousand sheep and a thousand goats and he was sharing his sheep in Carmel the
he was sharing his sheep in Carmel the
he was sharing his sheep in Carmel the name of the man was navel and the name
name of the man was navel and the name
name of the man was navel and the name of his wife Abigail and she was a woman
of his wife Abigail and she was a woman
of his wife Abigail and she was a woman of good understanding and beautiful
of good understanding and beautiful
of good understanding and beautiful appearance but the man was harsh and
appearance but the man was harsh and
appearance but the man was harsh and evil in his doings he was of the house
evil in his doings he was of the house
evil in his doings he was of the house of Caleb
of Caleb
of Caleb when David heard in the wilderness that
when David heard in the wilderness that
when David heard in the wilderness that navel was sharing his sheep David sent
navel was sharing his sheep David sent
navel was sharing his sheep David sent ten young men and David said to the
ten young men and David said to the
ten young men and David said to the young men go up to Carmel go to nae bell
young men go up to Carmel go to nae bell
young men go up to Carmel go to nae bell and greet him in my name and thus you
and greet him in my name and thus you
and greet him in my name and thus you shall say to him who lives in prosperity
shall say to him who lives in prosperity
shall say to him who lives in prosperity peace be to you
peace be to you
peace be to you peace to your house and peace to all you
peace to your house and peace to all you
peace to your house and peace to all you have now I have heard that you have
have now I have heard that you have
have now I have heard that you have Shearer's your shepherds were with us
Shearer's your shepherds were with us
Shearer's your shepherds were with us and we did not hurt them nor was there
and we did not hurt them nor was there
and we did not hurt them nor was there anything missing from them
anything missing from them
anything missing from them all the while they were in Carmel ask
all the while they were in Carmel ask
all the while they were in Carmel ask your young men and they will tell you
your young men and they will tell you
your young men and they will tell you therefore let my young men find favor in
therefore let my young men find favor in
therefore let my young men find favor in your eyes for we come on a feast day
your eyes for we come on a feast day
your eyes for we come on a feast day please give whatever comes to your hand
please give whatever comes to your hand
please give whatever comes to your hand to your servants and to your son David
to your servants and to your son David
to your servants and to your son David so when David's young men came they
so when David's young men came they
so when David's young men came they spoke to Nabal according to all these
spoke to Nabal according to all these
spoke to Nabal according to all these words in the name of David and waited
words in the name of David and waited
words in the name of David and waited been able answer David's servants who is
been able answer David's servants who is
been able answer David's servants who is David and who is the son of Jesse there
David and who is the son of Jesse there
David and who is the son of Jesse there are many servants nowadays who break
are many servants nowadays who break
are many servants nowadays who break away each one from his master shall I
away each one from his master shall I
away each one from his master shall I then take my bread and my water and my
then take my bread and my water and my
then take my bread and my water and my meat that I have killed for my Shearer's
meat that I have killed for my Shearer's
meat that I have killed for my Shearer's and give it to men when I do not know
and give it to men when I do not know
and give it to men when I do not know where they are from so David's young men
where they are from so David's young men
where they are from so David's young men turned on their heels and went back and
turned on their heels and went back and
turned on their heels and went back and they came and told him all these words
they came and told him all these words
they came and told him all these words then David said to his men every man
then David said to his men every man
then David said to his men every man gird on his sword so every man girded on
gird on his sword so every man girded on
gird on his sword so every man girded on his sword and David also girded on his
his sword and David also girded on his
his sword and David also girded on his sword and about 400 men went with David
sword and about 400 men went with David
sword and about 400 men went with David and two hundred stayed with the supplies
and two hundred stayed with the supplies
and two hundred stayed with the supplies now one of the young men told Abigail
now one of the young men told Abigail
now one of the young men told Abigail navels wife look David sent messengers
navels wife look David sent messengers
navels wife look David sent messengers from the wilderness to greet our master
from the wilderness to greet our master
from the wilderness to greet our master and he reviled them but the men were
and he reviled them but the men were
and he reviled them but the men were very good to us and we were not hurt nor
very good to us and we were not hurt nor
very good to us and we were not hurt nor did we miss anything as long as we
did we miss anything as long as we
did we miss anything as long as we accompanied them when we were in the
accompanied them when we were in the
accompanied them when we were in the fields they were a wall to us both by
fields they were a wall to us both by
fields they were a wall to us both by night and day all the time we were with
night and day all the time we were with
night and day all the time we were with them keeping the Sheep now therefore
them keeping the Sheep now therefore
them keeping the Sheep now therefore know and consider what you will do for
know and consider what you will do for
know and consider what you will do for harm is determined against our master
harm is determined against our master
harm is determined against our master and against all his household for he is
and against all his household for he is
and against all his household for he is such a scum
such a scum
such a scum that one cannot speak to him that
that one cannot speak to him that
that one cannot speak to him that Abigail made haste and took 200 loaves
Abigail made haste and took 200 loaves
Abigail made haste and took 200 loaves of bread two skins of wine five sheep
of bread two skins of wine five sheep
of bread two skins of wine five sheep already dressed five seeds of roasted
already dressed five seeds of roasted
already dressed five seeds of roasted grain and at one hundred clusters of
grain and at one hundred clusters of
grain and at one hundred clusters of raisins and two hundred cakes of figs
raisins and two hundred cakes of figs
raisins and two hundred cakes of figs and loaded them on donkeys and she said
and loaded them on donkeys and she said
and loaded them on donkeys and she said to her servants go on before me see I am
to her servants go on before me see I am
to her servants go on before me see I am coming after you but she did not tell
coming after you but she did not tell
coming after you but she did not tell her husband Abel
her husband Abel
her husband Abel so it was as she wrote on the donkey but
so it was as she wrote on the donkey but
so it was as she wrote on the donkey but she went down under cover of the hill
she went down under cover of the hill
she went down under cover of the hill and they were David and his men coming
and they were David and his men coming
and they were David and his men coming down toward her and she met them now
down toward her and she met them now
down toward her and she met them now David had said surely in vain I have
David had said surely in vain I have
David had said surely in vain I have protected all that this fellow has in
protected all that this fellow has in
protected all that this fellow has in the wilderness so that nothing was
the wilderness so that nothing was
the wilderness so that nothing was missed of all that belongs to him
missed of all that belongs to him
missed of all that belongs to him and he has repaid me evil for good
and he has repaid me evil for good
and he has repaid me evil for good may God do so and more also to the
may God do so and more also to the
may God do so and more also to the enemies of David if I leave one male of
enemies of David if I leave one male of
enemies of David if I leave one male of all who belong to him by morning light
all who belong to him by morning light
all who belong to him by morning light when abigail saw David she dismounted
when abigail saw David she dismounted
when abigail saw David she dismounted quickly from the donkey fell on her face
quickly from the donkey fell on her face
quickly from the donkey fell on her face before David and bowed down to the
before David and bowed down to the
before David and bowed down to the ground so she fell at his feet and said
ground so she fell at his feet and said
ground so she fell at his feet and said on me my lord on me let this iniquity be
on me my lord on me let this iniquity be
on me my lord on me let this iniquity be and please let your maidservant speak in
and please let your maidservant speak in
and please let your maidservant speak in your ears and hear the words of your
your ears and hear the words of your
your ears and hear the words of your maidservant please
maidservant please
maidservant please let not my lord regard this scoundrel
let not my lord regard this scoundrel
let not my lord regard this scoundrel neighbor for as his name is so is he
neighbor for as his name is so is he
neighbor for as his name is so is he Nabal is his name and folly is with him
Nabal is his name and folly is with him
Nabal is his name and folly is with him but I your maidservant did not see the
but I your maidservant did not see the
but I your maidservant did not see the young men of my Lord whom you sent now
young men of my Lord whom you sent now
young men of my Lord whom you sent now therefore my lord as the Lord lives and
therefore my lord as the Lord lives and
therefore my lord as the Lord lives and as your soul lives since the Lord has
as your soul lives since the Lord has
as your soul lives since the Lord has held you back from coming to bloodshed
held you back from coming to bloodshed
held you back from coming to bloodshed and from avenging yourself with your own
and from avenging yourself with your own
and from avenging yourself with your own hand now then let your enemies and those
hand now then let your enemies and those
hand now then let your enemies and those who seek harm for my lord be is Nabal
who seek harm for my lord be is Nabal
who seek harm for my lord be is Nabal and now this present which your
and now this present which your
and now this present which your maidservant has brought to my Lord let
maidservant has brought to my Lord let
maidservant has brought to my Lord let it be given to the young men who follow
it be given to the young men who follow
it be given to the young men who follow my lord please forgive the trespass of
my lord please forgive the trespass of
my lord please forgive the trespass of your maidservant for the Lord will
your maidservant for the Lord will
your maidservant for the Lord will certainly make for my Lord an enduring
certainly make for my Lord an enduring
certainly make for my Lord an enduring house because my Lord fights the battles
house because my Lord fights the battles
house because my Lord fights the battles of the Lord and evil is not found and
of the Lord and evil is not found and
of the Lord and evil is not found and you throughout your days yet a man has
you throughout your days yet a man has
you throughout your days yet a man has risen to pursue you and seek your life
risen to pursue you and seek your life
risen to pursue you and seek your life but the life of my Lord shall be bound
but the life of my Lord shall be bound
but the life of my Lord shall be bound in the bundle of the living with the
in the bundle of the living with the
in the bundle of the living with the Lord your God and the lives of your
Lord your God and the lives of your
Lord your God and the lives of your enemies he shall sling out as from the
enemies he shall sling out as from the
enemies he shall sling out as from the pocket of a sling and it shall come to
pocket of a sling and it shall come to
pocket of a sling and it shall come to pass when the Lord has done from my lord
pass when the Lord has done from my lord
pass when the Lord has done from my lord according to all the good that he has
according to all the good that he has
according to all the good that he has spoken concerning you and has appointed
spoken concerning you and has appointed
spoken concerning you and has appointed you ruler over Israel that this will be
you ruler over Israel that this will be
you ruler over Israel that this will be no grief to you nor offense of heart to
no grief to you nor offense of heart to
no grief to you nor offense of heart to my lord
my lord
my lord either that you have shed blood without
either that you have shed blood without
either that you have shed blood without cause or that my Lord has avenged
cause or that my Lord has avenged
cause or that my Lord has avenged himself but when the Lord has dealt well
himself but when the Lord has dealt well
himself but when the Lord has dealt well with my lord
with my lord
with my lord then remember your maidservant blessed
then remember your maidservant blessed
then remember your maidservant blessed is the Lord God of Israel who sent you
is the Lord God of Israel who sent you
is the Lord God of Israel who sent you this day to meet me and blessed is your
this day to meet me and blessed is your
this day to meet me and blessed is your advice and blessed are you because you
advice and blessed are you because you
advice and blessed are you because you have kept me this day from coming to
have kept me this day from coming to
have kept me this day from coming to bloodshed and from avenging myself with
bloodshed and from avenging myself with
bloodshed and from avenging myself with my own hand for indeed as the Lord God
my own hand for indeed as the Lord God
my own hand for indeed as the Lord God of Israel lives
of Israel lives
of Israel lives who has kept me back from hurting you
who has kept me back from hurting you
who has kept me back from hurting you unless you had hurried and come to meet
unless you had hurried and come to meet
unless you had hurried and come to meet me
me
me surely by morning light no males would
surely by morning light no males would
surely by morning light no males would have been left to neighbor so David
have been left to neighbor so David
have been left to neighbor so David received from her hand what she had
received from her hand what she had
received from her hand what she had brought him and said to her go up in
brought him and said to her go up in
brought him and said to her go up in peace to your house see I have heeded
peace to your house see I have heeded
peace to your house see I have heeded your voice and respected your person now
your voice and respected your person now
your voice and respected your person now abigail went to navel and there he was
abigail went to navel and there he was
abigail went to navel and there he was holding a feast in his house like the
holding a feast in his house like the
holding a feast in his house like the feast of a king and Abel's heart was
feast of a king and Abel's heart was
feast of a king and Abel's heart was merry within him for he was very drunk
merry within him for he was very drunk
merry within him for he was very drunk therefore she told him nothing little or
therefore she told him nothing little or
therefore she told him nothing little or much until morning light so it was in
much until morning light so it was in
much until morning light so it was in the morning when the wine had gone from
the morning when the wine had gone from
the morning when the wine had gone from navel and his wife had told him these
navel and his wife had told him these
navel and his wife had told him these things that his heart died within him
things that his heart died within him
things that his heart died within him and he became like a stone and it
and he became like a stone and it
and he became like a stone and it happened after about ten days that the
happened after about ten days that the
happened after about ten days that the Lord struck Mable and he died so when
Lord struck Mable and he died so when
Lord struck Mable and he died so when David heard that navel was dead he said
David heard that navel was dead he said
David heard that navel was dead he said blessed be the Lord who has pleaded the
blessed be the Lord who has pleaded the
blessed be the Lord who has pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of
cause of my reproach from the hand of
cause of my reproach from the hand of neighbor and has kept his servant from
neighbor and has kept his servant from
neighbor and has kept his servant from evil for the Lord has returned the
evil for the Lord has returned the
evil for the Lord has returned the wickedness of neighbor on his own head
and David sent and proposed to Abigail
and David sent and proposed to Abigail to take her as his wife when the
to take her as his wife when the
to take her as his wife when the servants of David had come to Abigail at
servants of David had come to Abigail at
servants of David had come to Abigail at Carmel they spoke to her David sent us
Carmel they spoke to her David sent us
Carmel they spoke to her David sent us to you to ask you to become his wife
to you to ask you to become his wife
to you to ask you to become his wife then she arose bowed her face to the
then she arose bowed her face to the
then she arose bowed her face to the earth here is your maidservant a servant
earth here is your maidservant a servant
earth here is your maidservant a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my
to wash the feet of the servants of my
to wash the feet of the servants of my lord
lord
lord so abigail rose in haste and rode on a
so abigail rose in haste and rode on a
so abigail rose in haste and rode on a donkey attended by five of her maidens
donkey attended by five of her maidens
donkey attended by five of her maidens and she followed the messengers of David
and she followed the messengers of David
and she followed the messengers of David and became his wife David also took a
and became his wife David also took a
and became his wife David also took a hinoa of Jezreel and so both of them
hinoa of Jezreel and so both of them
hinoa of Jezreel and so both of them were his wives but Saul had given
were his wives but Saul had given
were his wives but Saul had given Michael his daughter David's wife to
Michael his daughter David's wife to
Michael his daughter David's wife to palter the son of leche who was from
palter the son of leche who was from
palter the son of leche who was from Galan
Galan
Galan [Music]